So the next thing we wanna implement
is actual functionality for
adding a Todo, so
let's start in our main function.
And so right now,
we have something that handles when
the browser navigates to /todos.
Let's add another route, HandleFunc for
when the browser makes
a request to /add-todos.
So when that happens I'm gonna
fire the addTodo route handler.
And we can define that right above main,
so
Func addTodo,
it still needs our two arguments.
So http.ResponseWriter, and
r which will represent our
http.Request argument.
Cool, so the first that we wanna do,
if you think about the way your browser
is interacting you add a Todo,
you add a title, you add content.
You hit Submit or Send or
whatever, save, and
then it sends that information with
the request to the addTodo list.
So it's sending that additional
data to our http request.
So the first thing I wanna do is
grab that request, so r.ParseForm.
So ParseForm is gonna do
all the dirty work for us,
of actually grabbing whatever's
coming off of that request.
So we can actually dig into what
was just sent over the wire and
so this guy is gonna return one thing.
It's just gonna return an error if it
returns anything at all, and once again,
just as a review, if you're not sure.
I have no idea what ParseForm returns,
you can look it up, of course, but
you could also go to
go doc http.ParseForm.
And you'll see a lot of information
about what you can do and
you'll see that the function signature,
it's a method.
So we're calling it on an instance
of the request, so our r, and
then the name of the method is ParseForm.
And the only thing it returns,
if it returns anything, is an error.
Cool, it parses the request
body as a form,
puts the result into both r.PostForm and
r.Form.
So you get a lot of information from
the documentation, which is helpful.
Okay, so we parsed our form,
and underneath here,
we are going to handle our errors.
So if we did get an error back, it means
that our form wasn't parsed correctly.
So if error does not equal nil,
We want to send the error along,
it should be that error requires r writer.
The error itself, the message and
we'll stick with StatusBadRequest.
Log.Print, Request
parsing error and
then whatever that error was, just for
our own edification, Cool, and
so now we wanna actually create
a Todo based on whatever was in that
form and add it to our slice of Todos.
So I'm gonna create a variable called todo
and set it to a new instance of our Todo
struct And
our Todo struct has two attributes,
it has a capital T Title and so you can
use that request and call FormValue.
And then whatever the name of that
input element is in our HTML is
what's gonna be in the parentheses here.
So if we don't know, we've defined
this in our HTML, but we're not sure.
So let's hop back over to the HTML and
double check, so in todos.html.
You'll notice that this input type for
title has a name of lowercase t title.
So that's what our form
is actually looking for,
where we're gonna pull this input value
from, so we need lowercase t title.
So back in server.go, the form value we're
looking for is lowercase t title and
a string.
And then the content is r.FormValue, And
just because I know that this exists,
it is lowercase c content, so
now that we have a instance of our Todo.
That we've created from
the form submission,
we can modify our Todos variable.
So we're gonna redefine Todos with that
method append that we talked about
earlier.
The slice we're starting with is our
initial todos which has nothing in it
right now.
And what we wanna append is
that todo we just created.
Just for kicks, let's go ahead and print
out what we have for our todos, just so
we can see what's happening.
And then because we're not really
worrying too much about best practices,
we're going to call a redirect.
And redirect takes a writer,
the response and where we wanna go, so
I wanna go back to this todos.
We're gonna do a StatusSeeOther for now,
so basically what I'm trying to do,
is we're appending this to our browser.
And I just want the page refreshed, so
we can see it right away without having to
add too much boilerplate code right now.
So make sure your file is saved and
restart your server.
If we navigate over to /todos,
we have our blank form.
Okay, so when we fired off our forum
to add a todo, we got a blank page.
And you'll notice that at the top here,
we're sending our form to the /add-todo,
singular.
So circling back to the code over here,
on line 65,
I'm trying to send it to add-todos,
plural.
So I'm gonna fix that here and
restart my server.
Then let's navigate back to /todos
to get our form, whoops, not home.
Create a todo, and now we'll see that
our form redirects to /todos and
we see the todo on the form.
So kind of a recap,
in a pretty short amount of time,
we've wired up a couple route
handlers we've handled.
Defining both routes and the functions for
what needs to be rendered onto our
page in very few lines of code.
So this example was kind of to demonstrate
how quickly you could spin up a tiny web
server and
kind of what you can do within it.
A lot of it is a little contrived,
we're kind of creating our own todos,
handling them locally,
which won't persist.
But in terms of demonstrating how to
start interacting with a browser.
And parsing in HTML template, that was
kind of the goal of this small code-along.